.\" (C) Copyright 2018 Raphaël Halimi <raphael.halimi@gmail.com>

.TH TFTP-UPDATE.CONF 5 "2018-10-10"

.SH NAME
pxe-update.conf \- \fBpxe-update\fR configuration file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B /usr/local/etc/pxe-update/pxe-update.conf
System-wide configuration file.

.TP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/pxe-update/pxe-update.conf
Per-user configuration file.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpxe-update.conf\fR configuration files are sourced by the
\fBpxe-update\fR shell script to override built-in defaults.
.PP
The system-wide configuration file overrides the script defaults; the per-user
configuration file overrides the system-wide configuration file; and finally,
the command-line options override the per-user configuration file.

.SH VARIABLES
The following variables are used in the script:

.SS NETBOOT OPTIONS
This subsection describes configuration options used for the netboot images
handling, which is the primary feature of the script.

.TP
.B PXE_HOME
The directory where the PXE boot files will be downloaded to. Default is
"\fB/srv/tftp\fR".

.TP
.B RELEASES_LIST
Space-separated list of releases to download. Default is "\fBdebian:stable\fR".

.TP
.B ARCH_LIST
Space-separated list of architectures to download. Default is "\fBi386
amd64\fR".

.TP
.B MIRROR_DEBIAN
The Debian mirror to use. Default is "\fBhttp://ftp.debian.org\fR".

.TP
.B MIRROR_UBUNTU
The Ubuntu mirror to use. Default is "\fBhttp://archive.ubuntu.com\fR".

.TP
.B MIRROR_MINT
The Mint mirror to use. Default is "\fBhttp://packages.linuxmint.com\fR".

.TP
.B NO_VGA
This will remove the "vga=..." boot option from all entries, which is useful if
your PXE server is mainly used to provision virtual machines with virt-install.
Anything other than 1 will be considered as 0. Default is \fB0\fR (disabled).

.TP
.B PRESEED_URL
Preseed server URL. This will add a "url=..." boot parameter to "Automated
install" entries. Set it to the URL of the server which holds your
debian-installer preseed files, for example, "\fBtftp://autoserver\fR". See
\fBhttps://www.debian.org/releases/stable/amd64/apbs02.html\fR for more
information. Default is empty.

.TP
.B ADD_BOOT_OPTIONS
Additional boot options. This will add boot options at the end of all entries.
For example, if your TFTP server only serves virtual machines, you can add
"\fBelevator=noop\fR". Default is empty.

.SS LIVE CD OPTIONS
This subsection describes configuration options used for the Live CD images
handling. Unlike netboot images, Live CD images are not automatically downloaded
from Internet, and must be provided by the user beforehand.

.P
If you want to use Live CD images, set both \fBLIVE_ENABLE\fR and
\fBLIVE_URL_SUGGEST\fR to \fB1\fR (see below), and run the script normally. If
it finds ISO images available online for the requested releases, it will
suggest URLs to download them.

.TP
.B LIVE_ENABLE
Set to \fB1\fR to enable Live CD boot. Please note that, since Linux Mint
doesn't provide netboot images, you have to enable this option if you specified
any Linux Mint release. Anything other than 1 will be considered as 0. Default
is \fB0\fR (disabled).

.TP
.B LIVE_URL_SUGGEST
Set to \fB1\fR to suggest Live CD images URLs to download. Anything other than
1 will be considered as 0. Default is \fB0\fR (disabled).

.TP
.B ISO_DIR
The directory containing the provided ISO images. Default is
"\fB/mnt/nfs/iso\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_DIR
The directory where to copy ISO images contents. A PXE server cannot boot
directly from an ISO image, so the script will extract the kernel and initial
ramdisk from the ISO image to a subdirectory of \fBPXE_HOME\fR, and copy the
remaining files to this directory, which must be available to clients via NFS.
It must be locally accessible to the host running the script, so if it's on a
remote NFS server, it must be mounted \fBbefore\fR the script is run.
Default is "\fB/mnt/nfs/tftp\fR".

.TP
.B NFS_SERVER_IP
The IP address of the NFS server where the bootp clients can boot Live CDs from,
in other words, the NFS server which holds \fBLIVE_DIR\fR. Default is
"\fB192.168.0.1\fR".

.TP
.B NFS_SERVER_LIVE_DIR
The directory on the NFS server where the bootp clients can boot Live CDs from,
as seen by the NFS clients. If your NFS server is located on the same host as
the TFTP server, this will be identical to \fBLIVE_DIR\fR. Default is
"\fB/tftp\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_LOCALE
The locale to be used for Live CD boot. Default is "\fBen_US.UTF-8\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_KEYBOARD
The keyboard mapping to be used for Live CD boot. Default is "\fBus\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_NONFREE
If you prefer to use non-free Live CD images for Debian, set it to \fB1\fR.
Anything other than 1 will be considered as 0. Default is \fB0\fR (disabled).

.TP
.B LIVE_MIRROR_DEBIAN
The Debian Live mirror to use. Default is "\fBhttp://cdimage.debian.org\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_MIRROR_UBUNTU
The Ubuntu releases mirrror to use. Default is
"\fBhttp://releases.ubuntu.com\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_MIRROR_MINT
The Mint releases mirror to use. Default is
"\fBhttp://mirrors.kernel.org/linuxmint\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_DESKTOP_LIST_DEBIAN_7
Space-separated list of Debian Live CD variants to use for wheezy. Default is
"\fBstandard rescue gnome-desktop kde-desktop xfce-desktop lxde-desktop\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_DESKTOP_LIST_DEBIAN_8
Space-separated list of Debian Live CD variants to use for Jessie.
Default is "\fBstandard gnome-desktop kde-desktop xfce-desktop lxde-desktop
mate-desktop cinnamon-desktop\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_DESKTOP_LIST_DEBIAN_9
Space-separated list of Debian Live CD variants to use for Stretch and up.
Default is "\fBgnome kde xfce lxde mate cinnamon\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_DESKTOP_LIST_UBUNTU
Space-separated list of Ubuntu Live CD variants to use. Ubuntu only releases one
Live CD variant, which is \fBdesktop\fR (\fBserver\fR and \fBalternate\fR CDs
are not Live CDs), but the setting is still a variable in the script not to add
yet another distribution-specific quirk. Default is "\fBdesktop\fR" (and should
not be changed).

.TP
.B LIVE_DESKTOP_LIST_MINT
Space-separated list of Mint Live CD variants to use. Default is "\fBcinnamon
mate kde xfce\fR".

.TP
.B LIVE_DESKTOP_LIST_LMDE
Space-separated list of Mint LMDE Live CD variants to use. Default is
"\fBcinnamon mate\fR".

.SS MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
This subsection describes configuration options which do not fit in the above
sections, and which are mostly related to the PXE server general settings.

.TP
.B PXE_KEYMAP
The keymap file to use on the PXE server \fB(without extension)\fR for both
\fBPXELINUX\fR and \fBGRUB\fR. See the \fBpxe-update\fR(1) for more information
on how to create keymap files. Keymap files must be placed in the
\fBboot-screens.d\fR subdirectory of the system-wide or per-user configuration
directories. Default is empty.

.TP
.B PXE_THEME
The graphical theme to use on the PXE server. A theme called "\fBdefault\fR" is
normally provided with the script. A theme basically consists of a file named
\fBstdmenu.cfg\fR, and optionally a splash screen. See the \fBSYSLINUX\fR
documentation for more information on how to create a graphical theme. They
must be placed in the \fBthemes\fR subdirectory of the system-wide or per-user
data directories. Default is "\fBdefault\fR".

.TP
.B PXE_BANNER
The banner text to use on the PXE server root menu. If empty, it will be
replaced by the string "PXE server". Default is empty.

.TP
.B REMOVE_OLD
Set to \fB1\fR to remove any previously downloaded releases that were not
requested with the current instance of the script. This is useful to control
the disk space used by the \fBPXE_HOME\fR and \fBLIVE_DIR\fR directories.
Anything other than 1 will be considered as 0. Default is \fB0\fR (disabled).

.TP
.B VERBOSE
Set to \fB1\fR to enable verbose mode. Anything other than 1 will be
considered as 0. Default is \fB0\fR (disabled).

.TP
.B DEBUG
Set to \fB1\fR to enable debug mode. Anything other than 1 will be considered
as 0. Default is \fB0\fR (disabled).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pxe-update (1),
.BR \fBhttps://www.syslinux.org\fR.
